[AUDIO LOGO]
>> I'm Sarah Elkhaldy, and
this is Mystery Teachings.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Have you ever wondered if
some people in your life
are playing a role
in your evolution,
but aren't fully aware of it?
Like those who seem to fill
the background of your reality,
enhancing your experience like
programmed players in a game.
Are all these individuals
fully conscious
beings, or are some of
them created to guide us
on our spiritual growth?
The concept of Non-player
Characters or NPCs,
sometimes referred to as
backdrop or background people,
challenges us to rethink
who is truly conscious.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
If we think of what actually
is the criteria that makes up
a soul, what we would see is
that it is an individuated unit
of consciousness and that it
has the attributes of sentience
behind it.
So sentience and consciousness
is what animates a soul.
Now, this is exactly
the attributes
that are lacking within
a nonplayer character.
So although we may look
the same on the surface,
backdrop people are lacking
that consciousness and that soul
unit that animates us.
And that's also known
as the God spark.
The larger concept behind
background characters
was given to us by the work
of the quantum hypnotherapist
Dolores Cannon.
What Dolores Cannon
was discovering
within her regression
therapy sessions
was that her clients were all
having the same information
come up about these
energetic, holographic figures
within our reality that
are meant to be here
for a specific purpose, and
that's for our own evolution
and growth.
So what this term
means when it comes
to the modern
storyline around it,
is that there's more than
just a filling of space
that these extras or backdrop
people are taking up.
They're actually serving a
very vital role for our lessons
and our curriculum
within this reality.
Some of the information that
Dolores Cannon was receiving
from her clients who were
in a hypnotized state
was that these backdrop
people actually
are transported
across star systems
to be backdrop people around
many different galaxies
and in many different worlds.
So it's not just a theme
of the Earth school,
but instead they're more
like a tool of this universe.
And because they're a
tool, they get transported
to different places where
they play that vital role
for a world's curriculum.
So when we think
about what comprises
our reality, at the core of
it, everything is energy.
So what these NPCs would be
is just energetic projections
of a larger, more hive
mind consciousness, one
that is not individuated
enough and therefore lacks
the property of a soul.
We could also perceive this
concept of nonplayer characters
as unconditional love,
giving us a backdrop,
and giving us a scene
and a whole stage
for us to learn and play
out a curriculum within.
And so these backdrop
characters aren't
about necessarily
dehumanizing others around us,
but instead helping
us understand
why not everyone has the
same level of consciousness
and awareness.
And even the same level of
wanting to be more conscious
and wanting to have a larger
capacity of awareness.
So that's how
unconditional love plays
a vital role in all of this.
It's not to diminish
others, and it's not
to diminish our environment.
It's actually perceiving
our whole reality
and perceiving our
whole existence
through a new dimension,
one where we can actually
allow others to have
other belief systems
and live completely opposite
than how we would live and exist
however they wish to exist.
It's not so that we insert our
own projections onto others
as being less superior
and even inferior to us.
Instead, it's the opposite.
It's for us to be
able to learn how
to allow others to
have and to be whatever
they wish to be and have.
The true origins of this
concept of nonplayer characters
actually comes from
ancient esotericism.
It comes from Gnosticism.
In Gnostic scripture, there
are three different types
of souls within this matrix.
The first soul class
is the most advanced,
and they are the ones that are
the most spiritually imbued
with the God spark.
This is the class known
as the pneumatics.
The pneumatics are known
for having the God spark,
which is also giving
them the eyes to see
and the ears to hear.
This is an esoteric trope
for being able to understand
and perceive spiritual sight.
The second group of souls
is known as the psychics.
Psychics are soul individuals
and they are evolved as well.
They're just not as evolved
as the pneumatic class.
And then we have the third
soul group inside this matrix,
and that is the hylics.
This is where we get
the term nonplayer
characters from the
hylics are beings
that have no individuated soul.
They are strictly made
up of the material realm.
They are known as being
base consciousness
and made of matter only, with
no ability for the God spark.
So they are strictly oriented
in the Earth curriculum that has
to do with material existence.
And that's why they're so
repelled by a larger awareness
and repelled by
consciousness itself.
It's because that's not a
part of their curriculum.
They're in base
consciousness, the lowest
level of consciousness.
That's like asking a child
to then be in college.
It's simply not a part
of their curriculum.
So in Gnosticism, hylics aren't
here just as backdrop people
to serve our own growth
and to help us become more
unconditionally loving.
Instead, they're a
class of soul group here
that has the least capacity and
the least attributes of soul.
Whereas in the backdrop
character phenomenon,
these are now taken into
a slightly new context
where they do serve a
purpose for our own growth.
And they do have a vital role
from the universe at large.
But because all levels
of consciousness
are here together, mixed in with
one another in the Earth school,
we are all served by
each other's curriculum
and by each other's
level of consciousness.
This isn't about superiority.
All of us have things
we need to work on.
We're just at different
levels of consciousness.
So when we look at NPCs, or even
from Gnostic knowledge hylics,
whichever way we want to
look at this concept through,
it's really a story arc,
much like Pinocchio,
where we're all just on a
journey of becoming a real boy.
The concept of nonplayer
characters or NPCs
did not originate within
the spirit of this age.
But the modern
storyline to them is
that they operate a lot like the
video game players that we see,
except the backdrop characters.
So just like how
in a video game,
the person who is playing
a game has a controller,
we can use that as an
analogy for a higher self.
And so NPCs wouldn't have
somebody playing them
behind the controller, they
wouldn't have a higher self.
They'd be strictly
projections of the video game
to help make that person
who does have a controller,
feel the ambience of that
game to be more real.
That's exactly
how this term NPCs
is applied to people in our
reality who we see around us
and who are a part
of our environment.
That may not actually have
as much soul and sentience
and consciousness
behind them as we do.
It's because they are
strictly energy here
to fill up our environment
so that it appears
substantial and legitimate.
Now, naturally,
many of us might be
thinking at this moment what
makes a person a nonplayer
character?
Are we nonplayer characters?
What is that sign or
symptom that you'll
be able to identify them by?
It's usually something that's
far more subtle, but still very
firm within a being, and
that is an absolute repulsion
to becoming aware at all.
An absolute
allegiance to anything
that is of the status
quo and anything
that belongs to the matrix
control and belief systems.
Another way of looking
at this whole phenomenon
is actually addressing it
through the perception of just
levels of consciousness.
That would make anyone at a
lower level of consciousness
and a specific bandwidth
be under that category
of a nonplayer character.
So instead of an ill fate, it's
more like a lower frequency
that we operate in, one that
is complete unawareness, one
that even has a little bit of
a disdain for consciousness
itself.
And when we think of
it as being the lowest
bandwidth of
consciousness, now we
can see that we can fall into
this category of nonplayer
characters, and we
can just as much
grow out of this level
of nonplayer character.
So if you're lowering your
level of consciousness
and it drops enough
into this bandwidth,
that means your higher self
dropped the video controller
and went to the bathroom.
So in the modern layout
of nonplayer characters,
they're more acting like
agents in the matrix.
Just as with petty
tyrants, they're
able to be plugged
into at any moment.
They're operating
from a hive mind.
And since they have
no individuated units
of consciousness, they're
more like portals.
In fact, some esoteric
knowledge knows them
by the name organic
portals for this reason.
It's because they're
human to a certain extent,
but not fully human.
So they can be used as a portal.
And when they're in this state
of being used as a portal,
they're able to come at us in
some vital way for our growth
so they're used by the
matrix at large in any way
that the control system
needs to use them.
So when it's using
them, it won't all
look the same exact way.
But since they can be
tapped into at any time,
usually it's for a
very obvious reason,
such as coming at us in a way to
hinder or block our own growth.
So it's in some way of
casting and transmitting
energy towards us, to
shut us down and stop us
in some way from
our own evolution.
Dolores Cannon's work
isn't the only one
that has an answer
and a perception
of this whole phenomenon.
There are still other
schools of thought
that explain what NPCs are.
Some of them come
from the perception
that nonplayer
characters are created
when a being has had so much
trauma inflicted upon them,
that the larger universe, as
a vital act of compassion,
withdraws that soul from
the trauma and pain,
leaving behind their
energetic vessel
so that their soul can still
heal and still grow and mature,
but without having to
endure all that pain.
Because from the
universal perception
and from universal
consciousness,
that being who's inflicting
pain upon a person
still has their own lessons and
their own karma to play out.
So instead of stopping
a person from learning
the lessons of inflicting
pain on another,
the matrix withdraws
the soul from the person
who's receiving that
pain and trauma,
turning them
temporarily into an NPC.
This allows the
energy of a being
to still be there, but
without the actual pain
that they have to
continue to endure.
Now, I am actually not saying
that any of that is true,
but that is another
perception that
has explained this
phenomenon within this age.
So the idea of there
being nonplayer characters
can sometimes give us
main character energy.
When we have main
character energy,
we can diminish everything
around us through this concept.
And that's one of the pitfalls
to this idea of there being
nonplayer characters, is
that it can accidentally
create a narcissistic
bubble around ourselves.
And when we do this, we start
disconnecting from reality
and living in
individual realities.
And that is what the
definition of solipsism is.
Solipsism is a rite of passage.
We can't really avoid it.
We're going to run into
it because solipsism
enters our reality when we're
going through a growth spurt.
So when we're expanding, we're
in such a state of confusion
that many times it's easy
for us to believe that we
are the only thing that's real.
But if we know in advance that
this is actually a growth spurt,
we can navigate this
growth and expansion
we're experiencing
through confusion
without falling into the
pitfalls of narcissism.
And in truth, all of us start
off at a very low capacity.
And this is what the whole
work of developing free will
is about.
Because we start off
with just a kernel of it,
and we have many different
layers of fate and even karma
overlaid over our free
will and our soul.
And from there, it is our
task to become more aware
and to grow and
develop our free will
and to individuate
our consciousness.
So the individuation
story arc isn't only
for the backdrop
people, it's also
for every single person who's
on a spiritual awakening
journey just like Pinocchio.
NPCs are not obstacles.
They are mirrors reflecting
our deepest lessons,
helping us confront
blind spots and evolve
our spiritual journey.
By recognizing them as
part of the cosmic design,
we transcend judgment and
see the interconnectedness
in all things.
The true revelation, even in
their seeming absence of soul,
they are guiding us toward our
highest, most awakened selves.
[MUSIC PLAYING]